{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession\
of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.\
\
However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his\
first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds\
of the surrounding families, that he is considered the rightful property\
of some one or other of their daughters.\
\
\'93My dear Mr. Bennet,\'94 said his lady to him one day, \'93have you heard that\
Netherfield Park is let at last?\'94\
\
Mr. Bennet replied that he had not.\
\
\'93But it is,\'94 returned she; \'93for Mrs. Long has just been here, and she\
told me all about it.\'94\
\
Mr. Bennet made no answer.\
\
\'93Do you not want to know who has taken it?\'94 cried his wife impatiently.\
\
\'93_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it.\'94\
\
This was invitation enough.\
\
\'93Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken\
by a young man of large fortune from the north of England; that he came\
down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and was so much\
delighted with it, that he agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that he\
is to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of his servants are to\
be in the house by the end of next week.\'94\
\
\'93What is his name?\'94\
\
\'93Bingley.\'94\
\
\'93Is he married or single?\'94\
\
\'93Oh! Single, my dear, to be sure! A single man of large fortune; four or\
five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our girls!\'94\
\
\'93How so? How can it affect them?\'94\
\
\'93My dear Mr. Bennet,\'94 replied his wife, \'93how can you be so tiresome! You\
must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them.\'94\
\
\'93Is that his design in settling here?\'94\
\
\'93Design! Nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that he\
_may_ fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as\
soon as he comes.\'94\
\
\'93I see no occasion for that. You and the girls may go, or you may send\
them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are\
as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of the\
party.\'94\
\
\'93My dear, you flatter me. I certainly _have_ had my share of beauty, but\
I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now. When a woman has five\
grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty.\'94\
\
\'93In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of.\'94\
\
\'93But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes into\
the neighbourhood.\'94\
\
\'93It is more than I engage for, I assure you.\'94\
\
\'93But consider your daughters. Only think what an establishment it would\
be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to\
go, merely on that account, for in general, you know, they visit no\
newcomers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to\
visit him if you do not.\'94\
\
\'93You are over-scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very\
glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him of my\
hearty consent to his marrying whichever he chooses of the girls; though\
I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy.\'94\
\
\'93I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than the\
others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so\
good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving _her_ the preference.\'94\
\
\'93They have none of them much to recommend them,\'94 replied he; \'93they are\
all silly and ignorant like other girls; but Lizzy has something more of\
quickness than her sisters.\'94\
\
\'93Mr. Bennet, how _can_ you abuse your own children in such a way? You\
take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion for my poor nerves.\'94\
\
\'93You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They\
are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with consideration\
these last twenty years at least.\'94\
\
\'93Ah, you do not know what I suffer.\'94\
\
\'93But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four\
thousand a year come into the neighbourhood.\'94\
\
\'93It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not\
visit them.\'94\
\
\'93Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit them\
all.\'94\
\
Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour,\
reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had\
been insufficient to make his wife understand his character. _Her_ mind\
was less difficult to develop. She was a woman of mean understanding,\
little information, and uncertain temper. When she was discontented,\
she fancied herself nervous. The business of her life was to get her\
daughters married; its solace was visiting and news.\
}